---
layout: post
title: Simulation Theory Survey
subtitle: Does personality and media/pop-culture have an effect on ST believers
---
Check out the raw data here!
https://github.com/Tyler9937/Simulation-Theory-Survey

Simulation Theory. Who believes in it?
Not too long ago an idea was proposed. An idea that aimed to fundamentally make us question our view of the universe, the relationships around us, and even ourselves. This idea was the argument of Simulation Theory(ST) first purposed by Nick Bostrom in his paper published in the late 90's. Without getting into the concept too much. Simulation Theory proposes, based on a few arguments, that we are almost certainly living within a simulation. But lets not worry ourselves about that. Rather, this blog aims to answer the question: does belief in Simulation Theory directly correlate to a person's personality? Such as their knowledge in the ST topic, their confidence levels, their happiness, and their sociability. Also, of the people who do believe in Simulation Theory what kinds of media or pop-cultural phenomenon might they be associated with to cause them to believe in such a radical idea?
To try to answer these questions we first needed to collect some data. To accomplish this we created a short survey asking specific questions in an attempt to gain insights into people's personalities and their interactions with media/culture. Once completed the form was unleashed on to the popular site Reddit. Where it was free to be attacked, criticized, and by some admired as we slowly collected data. A sufficient amount of data was collected at about 200 responses. We then took our next step of our journey which consisted of data cleaning and exploration.
(fig 1) A screen-shot of the survey used.After some analysis we came up with this graph shown below(fig 2). It causally compares categories of people who believe in Simulation Theory vs the people who do not. It does this through a point system that assigns points to the given categories based on how certain survey questions were answered. The knowledge category is a rating on how much they know about Simulation Theory. In this category a significant number more of ST believers had knowledge in the the topic. This was as expected given the more a person reads into a topic the more likely they are interested and the more they learn. The depression category was close to equal. Apparently the idea of being stuck in a simulation with no chance of escape is equally depressing to both ST believers and non-believers. A main take away is the ideas of Simulation Theory isn't fundamentally targeting/having an effect on people with any kind of depression. Sociability was also an equal category. This was to our surprise, we suspected that the more social the individual the more likely they may have found themselves in a conversation with someone on ST. More conversations on the topic lead to a higher chance of being persuaded in the believer direction. Lastly, the confidence section was explored. We wanted to see if people who believe in ST were people of higher confidence. However, to our discovery people who believe in ST are very confident that it is real and the people who do not believe in ST are very confident that it is not real. Ultimately, leaving our poor data in a sort of tug-a-war.
(fig 2) Our graph comparing personality against ST believers and non-believers.A big goal with this research was to identify the cultural/media influences that might be having an impact on the people who believe in Simulation Theory. After careful analysis we found a variety of insights. About 60% of believes are fans of weed. Not to say that there is anything wrong with that, simply when people smoke weed they tend to get into deep conversations about uncommon ideas and tend to share bizarre thoughts. We were curious to see if believers might have found out about ST through these kinds of interactions. The data hints at the possibility of this. Secondly, less then 20% of believers owned a Virtual-Reality(VR) headset. We wondered about this since VR is an example of our computational abilities and a measure of our current progress in the field of simulation. But, maybe proof of progress isn't needed for ST believers given that its already such an out of this world idea. About 80% of believers have seen The Matrix. This movie was the first major motion picture to propose Simulation Theory related topics. This of course tells us insights from a pop-culture perspective that it is fairly probable that pop media is having an impact on the people who believe in this theory. Alternatively, not even 50% of people knew of Nick Bostom, which says a lot about the legitimacy of some of the believers. This is because Nick Bostom was essentially the founder of ST. Showing that people are not discovering this theory through a line of academic work but from other sources. 80% are fans of Elon Musk. Elon Musk is a well know controversial icon who has stated a variety of times that he is a strong believer of ST and this data shows that an icon like Elon Musk could very easily have influence over peoples beliefs in a abstract topic such as this one. 90% of ST believers also believe in aliens. Aliens have been extremely present in media and pop-culture. It has been made into movies and multiple theories have been created around the topic. It is likely that ST is being presented in a much similar way as the aliens argument and that is why people who believe in aliens are also likely to believe in ST as well. Lastly, about 60% of believers are familiar with the Fermi paradox which is another popular topic of discussion on the internet. Often "creators"(such as You-Tubers) that make content on Simulation Theory will also have content on the Fermi Paradox and many other science topics. The percentage shows some insight that people who have heard of Simulation Theory or at least educated themselves on topic could have likely found their information from these kind of sources(You-Tubers, other kinds of content creators)
(fig 3) Our graph looking at percents of people who said yes to specific categories.So what kinds of people believe in Simulation Theory? I believe after this data exploration we have found ourselves an answer. The analysis shows that Simulation-Theory believers are more commonly influenced by pop-culture and spreading crazy ideas through word of mouth. The belief has much less so to do with academic research or exploration into our current virtual worlds.
